# Remote-internshipTCSion
	Objective : 
Medicine Side-effect Analysis : To build a classification model that classifies side effects of a particular drug by Age, Race and Gender.
introduction:
Machine learning (ML) is an innovative approach that has extensive applications in classification, prediction, forecasting etc.. Machine learning techniques are being used in a variety of areas such as medicine, engineering, education, manufacturing and production, forecast, traffic management, robotics etc. It is one of the most advanced concepts of artificial intelligence (AI), and provides a strategic approach to developing automated, complex and objective algorithmic techniques for multimodal and dimensional biomedical or mathematical data analysis. Machine learning has already shown potential in pharma and medicine for finding ways to effectively collect and use lots of different types of data for better analysis, prevention, and treatment of individuals.
Healthcare is an important industry which offers value-based care to millions of people. Healthcare specialists and stakeholders around the globe are looking for innovative ways to deliver on quality, value and outcome. Machine learning (ML) based applications embedded with real-time patient data available from different healthcare systems in multiple countries can increase the efficacy of new treatment options which were unavailable before. It has found wide applications in precision medicine and personalised treatments. Using ML techniques, side effects of drugs both beneficial and adverse can be classified into categories. That can help to make smarter decisions for precision medicine, personalised treatments and to repurpose the drug. Drug classifiers based on side effects can also be an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners.
A side effect is usually regarded as an undesirable secondary effect which occurs in addition to the desired therapeutic effect of a drug or medication. Side effects may vary for each individual depending on the person's disease state, age, weight, gender, ethnicity and general health. Side effects can occur when commencing, decreasing/increasing dosages, or ending a drug or medication regimen. Side effects may also lead to non-compliance with prescribed treatment. When side effects of a drug or medication are severe, the dosdosage may be adjusted or a second medication may be prescribed. Lifestyle or dietary changes may also help to minimize side effects. It is a challenging task to classify the side effects for each drug. Machine learning techniques can make such tasks easier to do without compromising the accuracy. Pharmacogenetic research in the past few decades has uncovered significant differences among racial and ethnic groups in the metabolism, clinical effectiveness, and side-effect profiles of many clinically important drugs. These differences must be taken into account in the design of cost management policies such as formulary implementation, therapeutic substitution and step-care protocols. These programs should be broad and flexible enough to enable rational choices and individualized treatment for all patients, regardless of race or ethnic origin.
This work includes machine learning models for classifying side effects of drugs based on age and gender using a dataset with user generated text. Data was acquired by scraping the WebMD site. WebMD is an organization which provides information, support and reference material about health subjects through a team of doctors and health experts across a broad range of specialty areas. The dataset includes both demographic and clinical data. It contains 362806 instances and 12 features including categorical, numerical and text data. Dataset provides user reviews on specific drugs along with related conditions, side effects, age, sex, and effectiveness reflecting overall patient satisfaction. The structure of the data is that a patient with a unique ID purchases a drug that meets his condition and writes a review and rating for the drug he/she purchased on the date. Afterwards, if the others read that review and find it helpful, they will click usefulCount.
	Conclusion:
Performed various pre-processing steps and obtained a clean dataset for exploratory data analysis and modelling. Various visualisations were done on the dataset and selected a particular drug lyrica. Maximum users consume this drug for neuropathic pain. The best classification model was obtained by Random Forest. On performance evaluation, maximum accuracy of 67.46% has been achieved. By race, Whites topped in the usage of this drug with a higher female ratio. Domination of female users were consistent across age groups above 12 and below 75 years. Also, people in the age groups 45 to 54 accounted for maximum usage of lyrica. Most users found lyrica as highly effective, especially females. Most rated it highly for its ease of use as well. Side effects of the drug proved race neutral. Genderwise, side effects proved extreme in females.
link
https://www.loom.com/share/5d5cd65261ad4016844de7051da25a6d
